Subject: CHOOSE Talk Tuesday Nov 1 -- Continuous Architecting of Stream-Based Systems

You are cordially invited to the following CHOOSE talk:

Continuous Architecting of Stream-Based Systems

Speaker: Pooyan Jamshidi

Please register here: https://goo.gl/forms/lYnMhC5u0QPeoFpu2

When: Tuesday Nov 1 @ 17h00-18h00

The talk will be followed by a light aperitif.

Where: University of Bern, Engehaldenstrasse 8, 3012 Bern, Room 001

Abstract:

Big data architectures have been gaining momentum in recent years. For instance, Twitter uses stream processing frameworks like Storm to analyse billions of tweets per minute and learn the trending topics. However, architectures that process big data involve many different components interconnected via semantically different connectors making it a difficult task for software architects to refactor the initial designs. As an aid to designers and developers, we developed OSTIA (On-the-fly Static Topology Inference Analysis) that allows: (a) visualizing big data architectures for the purpose of design-time refactoring while maintaining constraints that would only be evaluated at later stages such as deployment and run-time; (b) detecting the occurrence of common anti-patterns across big data architectures; (c) exploiting software verification techniques on the elicited architectural models. In the lecture, OSTIA will be shown on three industrial-scale case studies.

Bio:

Pooyan Jamshidi is a postdoctoral research associate in software engineering in the Department of Computing at Imperial College London, since March 2015. Prior to this, he was a postdoctoral research fellow at Dublin City University (DCU), and a research assistant with IC4 and Lero. He obtained a PhD in Computing from DCU in 2014 under the supervision of Dr Claus Pahl. He received the BS and MS degrees in computer science and systems engineering from Amirkabir University of Technology, in 2003 and 2006, respectively. His general research interests are in the field of Software Engineering and his focus lies in the areas of self-adaptive software, machine learning, fuzzy control and big data.

This event is free for all SI-CHOOSE members. Non members are encouraged to join:

http://www.s-i.ch/en/members/


